The connections for this project can be a little confusing as they are components that use multiple wires and connections. 
To make it easier, the connections, programming and testing was done for each component individually. 

Firstly, the RFID reader was connected to Arduino as it is the main component of the project. 
The reader sends an alpha-numeric value to the Arduino when a RFID card or FOP is tapped onto the reader. 
This alpha-numeric code is then compared with the codes that have been stored in code as a static value. 
If the code matches exactly then the door is opened, if not then the door is not opened. Once this interfacing was completed, then other components were added. 

Secondly, the LCD (16x2) screen is interfaced to the Arduino, since it occupies highest number of data pins. 
The method of sending string input to LCD is as simple as printing something on the serial monitor, for instance lcd.print("Access Denied :("); . 
When the correct RFID card is scanned on the RFID reader, a message saying "Authorized access” is displayed on the screen. 
If wrong card is scanned, then “Access Denied” message is displayed.

Once the RFID and LCD were working, the basic code of the project could be tested, which means correct RFID cards were being identified. 
This indicated that as a next step we could interface the solenoid lock. 
The lock is a little tricky to be interface. 
The lock works on 12V signals. 
Arduino by default can only send 3.3V to 5V of signals, which means that the regular digital output pins on Arduino are not capable of controlling the lock. 
For this, a 12V battery was used, but the battery cannot be directly connected to the lock, as there would be no control mechanism in place. 
Therefore, relay board was used. A relay can connect the power source (12V battery) to the actuator(lock). 
The interesting fact of relay is that it can be toggled using a 5V signal from Arduino. 
To simplify, when the door is required to be opened, Arduino sends a 5V signal to relay, the relay in turn completes the connect between the 12V battery and the solenoid lock, 
resulting in the lock being open. When the lock is to be closed an invert signal is send to relay, resulting in the disconnect of battery and lock. 
This ensures that whenever Arduino sends a signal, the lock will toggle via the relay. 
In this project a relay board is used, as it makes the connections easy, in real world, a single relay would be used, this might require some changes in the connections.

Finally, the buzzer and LED can be interfaced. 
The job of LED and buzzer is solely to provide Audio-Visual confirmation of access approval or denial. 
The LED is used to indicate the approval, whenever a correct RFID card is scanned, the LED is turned on. 
On the other hand, the buzzer is used was indicating unauthorized RFID card by sending tone signals. 
Which means, whenever a wrong RFID card is scanned, the buzzer will beep, working as an alarm.
